[Music]
waking up in the morning is one thing
getting out of bed totally different
story so
what can you do what if tomorrow you
reach for that glass of water on your
bedside table as soon as you wake up
did you know that nearly 70 percent of
your brain is filled with water
i didn't anyway when you drink water
it's supposed to improve your brain
power
without water you're kind of like a car
running on fumes
dehydration makes you feel tired drained
and lifeless
so start the day off right by chugging a
whole glass or two
drinking water on an empty stomach jump
starts your metabolism
adding a slice or two of lemon in there
supposed to be even better water helps
to flush out toxins from your body
and makes it easier to lose weight and
you can drink it while you're still in
bed
score research has found that making
your bed in the morning is actually good
for you
it'll be one of your first
accomplishments for the day
now you won't get a nobel prize for it
but hey
not every achievement gets a medal
something as simple as making your bed
can reduce your mental stress
not just that it's supposed to lead to
increased productivity throughout the
day
plus your room will look cleaner some
people meditate right when they wake up
and apparently they feel awesome after
it research says that just
10 minutes of meditation a day can
improve concentration
but its benefits don't stop there it's
supposed to stimulate the brain and
boost
long-term memory meditation helps people
who are feeling
anxious or sad to feel better and if
you're already doing pretty well it can
make things
even better what if just one day
went according to plan that would be
great wouldn't it
but for things to go to plan there needs
to be a
yes you guessed it a plan so how about
taking a few minutes in the morning to
organize your thoughts
that way you won't forget to do anything
important and you'll probably pick a
better order for all the stuff you got
to do
and writing a plan to have fun that
actually works
after you organize your day you'll be
much more likely to tackle the big stuff
first
that way you'll be much less stressed
out later on
and you'll feel great when you cross
your completed tasks off your to-do list
now let's start moving and grooving up
wait wait that's too much grooving
before noon
so let's just stick to moving when you
exercise
you feel more energetic and more awake
the type of exercise you do
doesn't matter as long as you're
actually doing it
run walk swim lift cycle anything's okay
as long as it's exercise next keep a
journal
whatever you're feeling put it down on
paper you'll get to know yourself better
and it can help you overcome any
negative emotions
in the journal you can also write down a
few things you're grateful for
which is a great mood booster and here's
where journaling in the morning gives
you an edge
your day hasn't started yet but you're
already feeling grateful and positive
and yes you can use your beloved phone
to make a diary too
taking a cold shower in the morning will
definitely wake you up
and it clears your mind and increases
your energy levels
it's also known to make people more
resilient to stress
and you'll be able to impress your
friends by jumping into an icy cold
river on your next camping trip
now didn't someone once say that you are
what you eat
hey i don't look like peanut butter yet
but having a healthy breakfast is a
great way to kick start the day
researchers say that whole grains and
avocados
improve the blood flow to the brain
while raspberries and blueberries may
help control stress
when planning your breakfast menu just
go nuts
i mean almonds and hazelnuts are packed
with vitamin e
and are great for brain health
especially as you get older
research says that pumpkin seeds are
also great for
wait what were we talking about yikes
pass me those nuts
are squirrels and chipmunks smarter than
they seem they eat nuts non-stop
another great thing you can do for
yourself is wake up early
getting up every day around five or six
in the morning
may not be too bad if you go to bed
early enough
research says that people get their best
sleep before midnight
waking up early in the morning will give
you more time to focus on self-care
and with more time on your hands you'll
obviously feel less stressed
when you get up early you'll have plenty
of time to plan your day
to make it even more productive having a
fixed morning routine
also helps you feel less stressed when
you do something consistently
it takes away the trouble of making
decisions at least for the first hour of
your day
you won't waste energy figuring out what
to do
take a few minutes to visualize your
perfect day
just sit back close your eyes and
imagine a day where everything goes
perfectly in your mind make your day as
productive happy
and as enjoyable as you can then when
you get back to reality
you'll feel energized and motivated
it's also super important to know what
not to do
do you hit the snooze button every
morning i sometimes do
but apparently it does more harm than
good when your alarm first goes off
it breaks your sleep cycle so getting a
few extra minutes of z's
doesn't leave you feeling more rested
it's just the opposite
checking your phone in the morning is
also a big no-no
you'll start off the day feeling like
you missed out on stuff that happened
while you were asleep
healthy minds don't need undue stress so
just let the phone be another thing to
avoid is
tv instead switch on some music when you
wake up
that'll set the tone for your productive
day you can go the soothing route to
calm your mind
or maybe something a little more raised
the roof
some people try on multiple outfits in
the morning and now you've gotten a
mountain of clothes on your bed
plus you're too stressed out to get on
with your day
and if you end up feeling like you chose
the wrong thing
your self-confidence can take a big hit
it's usually
best to plan ahead before going to bed
lay out your clothes for the next day
you'll be calmer in the morning or you
can go
all steve jobs and just buy a bunch of
copies of the same outfit
now don't guzzle sugar in the morning it
doesn't fill you up
and it gives you a sudden jolting energy
boost that your brain's not prepared to
handle
that spike in energy is just temporary
by the time you go out the door
you'll be feeling down again not exactly
ideal
we're still sugar leaves you feeling
jittery and some studies say that
excess sugar can make a person feel
sadder over time
other research says that consuming sugar
makes learning and memorizing stuff more
difficult
but luckily not all sugar is created
equal
go for some fresh fruit or if you have
to sweeten up that coffee
use coconut sugar or maple syrup it's a
more complex sugar that takes longer for
the body to digest
so it's more of a steady long lasting
energy lift
this next one's a bit tricky every
morning think of something to look
forward to it doesn't have to be epic
you just need to find something to get
you out of that comfy delicious bed
a piece of chocolate you left at work
seeing your friends
laughing get your boss's new haircut
anything
you know the phrase fake it till you
make it when you get up
smile even if it's the last thing you
feel like doing
your brains actually not that smart it
can't always tell the difference between
a fake smile and a real one
when you smile your brain thinks you're
happy then it releases
chemicals to make you feel happier
deception
and lastly let that natural morning
light in
feeling real sunlight on your face makes
you feel wide awake
and it'll tell your body that it's time
to get up and hit it
have yourself a great day